Initiate Comprehensive Kuksa Requirements Analysis for Enhanced Version Development (#21)
eclipse-kuksa/kuksa-databroker: doc/kuksa_analysis/kuksa_requirementss.md

- [Functional requirements](#functional-requirements)
  - [As Signal Consumer](#as-signal-consumer)
    - [FR1-ASC](#fr1-asc)
    - [FR2-ASC](#fr2-asc)
    - [FR3-ASC](#fr3-asc)
    - [FR4-ASC](#fr4-asc)
    - [FR5-ASC](#fr5-asc)
    - [FR6-ASC](#fr6-asc)
    - [FR7-ASC](#fr7-asc)
    - [FR8-ASC](#fr8-asc)
  - [As Databroker](#as-databroker)
    - [FR1-AD](#fr1-ad)
    - [FR2-AD](#fr2-ad)
    - [FR3-AD](#fr3-ad)
    - [FR4-AD](#fr4-ad)
  - [As Provider](#as-provider)
    - [FR1-AP](#fr1-ap)
    - [FR2-AP](#fr2-ap)
    - [FR3-AP](#fr3-ap)
- [Non-Functional Requirements](#non-functional-requirements)
- [Domain requirements](#domain-requirements)

# Requirements status
| Description                               | Status                       |
|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------|
| Implemented and Verified                  | 🟢                           |
| Approved, Not Yet Implemented             | 🟡                           |
| Long Term Goal                            | 🔴                           |

# Functional requirements

## As Signal Consumer
### FR1-ASC
    Title: Single Access Service Point for Signal Consumer

    Status: 🟡

>     Description: The Signal Consumer shall have a single service point accessible from my execution environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Description: The Signal Consumer shall have a single service point accessible.
```

   
### FR2-ASC

>     Title: Uniform Retrieval of Vehicle and Environmental Signal Values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Title: Uniform retrieval of vehicle and environmental signal values
```

    Status: 🟡

>     Description: The Signal Consumer shall get sensor values or actuator values of the vehicle signals and its environment(air temperature, etc) in a uniform manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Description: The Signal Consumer shall get sensor or actuator values of the vehicle signals and its environment(air temperature etc) in a uniform manner.
```

      1.  IF there is an error
          * THEN the Signal Consumer shall not receive any signal value, just one single error with detailed error information
          * ELSE the Signal Consumer shall receive exactly all the signals’ states(failure or value) requested.

>           n. A signal can have value out of the set of the defined value restriction/data type but it can also have those additional failure states:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          n. A signal can have a value in range of the defined restrictions/data type. Additionally it can hold these failure states:
```

>             - "unknown": The signal with the specified path/name is not defined on the system.

Reviewer: Review these states not sure they're correct anymore

>             - "access denied": The signal is basically known, but the consumer/provider has no permission to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - "access denied": The signal is known, but the consumer/provider has no permission to access it.
```

>             - "not provided": The signal is basically known, but currently no provider is serving it or the provider lost the connection to the backend component serving this signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - "not provided": The signal is known, but currently no provider is serving it or the provider lost the connection.
```

            - "invalid": The signal is being served by a provider, but currently has no valid value. This may happen if a specific value cannot be determined because of some (temporary) physical sensor error or a target value is currently not known, e.g. if a window is moved by a passenger via up/down button.
       
      2.  The Signal Consumer only shall get values for signal to which it has permission to.
      3.  The Signal Consumer shall provide the paths of the requested signals, which optionally may contain wildcards.
  
### FR3-ASC

>     Title: Subscription and Notification for Signal Value Changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Title: Subscription and Notification for signal value changes
```

    Status: 🟡

>     Description: The Signal Consumer shall subscribe to sensor values or actuator current values of a signal and then get notified when some signal value changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Description: The Signal Consumer shall be able subscribe to sensor or actuator current values of a signal. When subscribed the signal consumer must get notified when there's a change in the signal value.
```

      *  IF there is an error
          THEN the Signal Consumer shall not receive any signal value, just one single error with detailed error information
          ELSE the Signal Consumer shall receive exactly all the signals’ states(failure or value) requested.
      *  The Signal Consumer only shall get values for signal to which it has permission to.
      *  The Signal Consumer shall provide the paths of the requested signals.

### FR4-ASC

>     Title: Filtered Interval Subscription for Signal Values

Reviewer: why everything upper case?

>     Status: 🟡

Reviewer: shouldn't this be red?

    Description: The Signal Consumer shall subscribe and be able to apply a filter to receive a signal values with an interval of x milliseconds.
      *  IF there is an error
          THEN the Signal Consumer shall not receive any signal value, just one single error with detailed error information
          ELSE the Signal Consumer shall receive exactly all the signals’ states(failure or value) requested.
      *  The Signal Consumer only shall get values for signal to which it has permission to.
      *  The Signal Consumer shall provide the paths of the requested signals.

### FR5-ASC
    Title: Accessing Static Metadata of Signals

    Status: 🟡

    Description: A Signal Consumer shall be able to get static Metadata from signals.
    - Details:

>       * All sensors, actuators, and attributes values for which a Signal Consumer has permission to.

Reviewer: Have we agreed on this? I thought metadata is not in the scope of permissions?

      * The Signal Consumer shall provide the path, paths or wildcard of the signals.

### FR6-ASC
    Title: Retrieving Attribute Values for Signal Consumption

    Status: 🟡

    Description: A Signal Consumer shall be able to get attributes values.

### FR7-ASC

>     Title: Actuation of Actuator Value with Databroker Confirmation

Reviewer: Databroker confirmation I would put into brackets () since we will not implement this in a first step

    Status: 🟡

>     Description: The Signal Consumer shall be able to actuate a value of an actuator. This value has to be forwarded to the provider of this actuator if the provider is available, otherwise the target value is lost:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Description: The Signal Consumer shall be able to request an actuation. This request has to be forwarded to the provider of this actuator if the provider is available, otherwise the request gets lost:
```

   
### FR2-AP
    Title: Subscription and Actuation Notification Handling for Providers by Databroker

    Status: 🟡

    Description: The data broker shall offer a method to providers to subscribe for actuation notifications on a (sub-) set of claimed signals.
      a. The data broker shall reject subscription requests containing signals where the client is not the provider of.
      b. The data broker shall notify the provider of a signal about received actuation requests.

### FR3-AP
    Title: Signal State Update Mechanism for Providers by Databroker

    Status: 🟡

    Description: The data broker shall offer a method to providers to update the current state of a set of signals.
      a. The current state consists a timestamp and either of valid value or a failure state.
      b. The data broker shall offer a method optimized for frequent updates.
      c. The data broker should offer a second method for non-frequent updates that is easy to use in a provider's implementation.
      d. The data broker shall reject updating the current state of signals where the client is not the provider of.
      e. The data broker shall store the updated value or failure state of a signal.

> 

Reviewer: We could add here one more point regarding VISS. How much we will support it. If we want to support it etc. Maybe also stating the problems we see with VISS
